WORKSHEET-1
SQL


1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create B) Update
C) Delete D) ALTER
answer:
A) Create 
D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update B) Delete
C) Select D) Drop
answer:
A) Update 
B) Delete
C) Select


3. Full form of SQL is:
A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
C) Simple Query Language D) None of them
answer:
B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.
answer:
B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these
answer:
A) Data Manipulation Language 

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them
answer:
C) Create Table A (B int,C float

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them
answer:
B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
C) Delete D from A D) None of them
answer:
B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int
answer:
D) Alter table A Column D float to int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them
answer:
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B

11. What is data-warehouse?
answer:
A data warehouse is a relational database that is designed for query and analysis rather than for transaction processing. It usually contains historical data
 derived from transaction data, but it can include data from other sources.
 DWs are central repositories of integrated data from one or more disparate sources.
 They store current and historical data in one single place that are used for creating analytical reports for workers throughout the enterprise.
The data warehouse's greatest strength is getting relevant insight and information into the hands of decision-makers in a timely manner. This enables businesses to keep up with 
the pace of change, high-competition and digital transformation.


12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
answer:
OLAP : Online Analytical Processing, a category of software tools which provide analysis of data for business decisions. OLAP systems allow users to analyze database 
       information from multiple database systems at one time.
OLTP : Online transaction processing shortly known as OLTP supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture. OLTP administers day to day transaction of an organization.

The basic difference between OLTP and OLAP is that OLTP is an online database modifying system, whereas, OLAP is an online database query answering system.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
answer:
Integrated: The way data is extracted and transformed is uniform, regardless of the original source.

Time-variant: Data is organized via time-periods (weekly, monthly, annually, etc.)

Non-volatile: A data warehouse is not updated in real-time. It is periodically updated via the uploading of data, protecting it from the influence of momentary change.

Utilizing data warehouses makes it simple to generate reports, run ad-hoc queries and extract near-limitless streams of data that can be converted into meaningful business data.

14. What is Star-Schema?
answer:
 Star-Schema is the simplest style of data mart schema and is the approach most widely used to develop data warehouses and dimensional data marts.
 The star schema consists of one or more fact tables referencing any number of dimension tables. The star schema is an important special case of the snowflake schema, and is more effective for handling simpler queries.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
answer:
SETL (SET Language) is a very high-level programming language based on the mathematical theory of sets.

SETL provides two basic aggregate data types: unordered sets, and sequences (the latter also called tuples). The elements of sets and tuples can be of any arbitrary type, 
including sets and tuples themselves. Maps are provided as sets of pairs (i.e., tuples of length 2) and can have arbitrary domain and range types. Primitive operations in 
SETL include set membership, union, intersection, and power set construction, among others.

