Statistics– WORKSHEET 6 solutions:

1.) b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation

2.) c) binomial

3.) a) 2

4.) (a) Type-I error

5.) (d) Confidence coefficient

6.) (a) Decreases

7.) (b) Hypothesis

8.) (d) All of the mentioned

9.) (a) 0
.
10.) Bayes' theorem  describes the probability of an event, based on prior knowledge of conditions that might be related to the event and
     is a mathematical formula for determining conditional probability For example, if the risk of developing health problems is known to 
     increase with age, Bayes' theorem allows the risk to an individual of a known age to be assessed more accurately (by conditioning it 
     on his age) than simply assuming that the individual is typical of the population as a whole.

11.) A Z-score is a numerical measurement that describes a value's relationship to the mean of a group of values. Z-score is measured in terms
     of standard deviations from the mean. If a Z-score is 0, it indicates that the data point's score is identical to the mean score. A Z-score 
     of 1.0 would indicate a value that is one standard deviation from the mean. Z-scores may be positive or negative, with a positive value 
     indicating the score is above the mean and a negative score indicating it is below the mean.

12.) The t-test is any statistical hypothesis test in which the test statistic follows a Student's t-distribution under the null hypothesis.
     A t-test is the most commonly applied when the test statistic would follow a normal distribution if the value of a scaling term in the test 
     statistic were known.

13.) In statistics, a percentile is a type of quantile which divides the given probability distribution or sample into 100 equal-sized intervals.
     this allows the data to be analyzed in terms of percentages. 
     basically, a percentile is a number where a certain percentage of scores fall below that number.Percentiles are commonly used to report scores 
     in tests, like the SAT, GRE and LSAT.

14.) Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is an analysis tool used in statistics that splits an observed aggregate variability found inside a data set into two parts: 
    systematic factors and random factors.
    The systematic factors have a statistical influence on the given data set, while the random factors do not. Analysts use the ANOVA test to determine the influence
    that independent variables have on the dependent variable in a regression study.
    The Formula for ANOVA is:  F= MST/MSE
    they are basically of two types : one way anova and two way anova

15.) An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help you to figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis
     or accept the alternate hypothesis.
     The one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) is used to determine whether there are any statistically significant differences between the means of three or more independent 
     (unrelated) groups.
     A two-way ANOVA test is a statistical test used to determine the effect of two nominal predictor variables on a continuous outcome variable.A two-way ANOVA test analyzes
     the effect of the independent variables on the expected outcome along with their relationship to the outcome itself



