
Statistics– WORKSHEET 4 solutions:

1.) a) True

2.) a) Central Limit Theorem

3.) b) Modeling bounded count data

4.) d) All of the mentioned

5.) c) Poisson

6.) b) False

7.) b) Hypothesis

8.) a) 0

9.) c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship

10.) Normal distribution is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean, showing that data near the mean are more frequent 
     in occurrence than data far from the mean. In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.
     # The mean, mode and median are all equal.
     # The curve is symmetric at the center (i.e. around the mean, μ).
     # Exactly half of the values are to the left of center and exactly half the values are to the right.
     # The total area under the curve is 1.

11.)  we can use multiple-regression analysis to estimate a missing value. We use this technique to deal with missing SUS scores. Regression substitution 
      predicts the missing value from the other values
      
      ==> There are a lot of techniques to treat missing value. 
      # Substitute a value such as mean,median and mode:
      When the percentage is large and also when it makes sense to do something to avoid bias modeling results, substituting a value (e.g. mean, median)
      is a commonly used way. But this method could cause bias distribution and variance. That’s where the following imputation methods come in.

      # Regression imputation
      The predicted value obtained by regressing the missing variable on other variables.

      # Interpolation and extrapolation
      An estimated value from other observations from the same individual. It usually only works in longitudinal data.

      # Dropping rows with null values
      The easiest and quickest approach to a missing data problem is dropping the offending entries.

      # using libraries such as KNN IMPUTER , ffill etc.

12.) An AB test is an example of statistical hypothesis testing , in other words statistical inference, a process whereby a hypothesis is made about the relationship
     between two data sets and those data sets are then compared against each other to determine if there is a statistically significant relationship or not.

13.) mean imputation of missing data is bad practice in general:
     If just estimating means: mean imputation preserves the mean of the observed data and also Leads to an underestimate of the standard deviation.
     hence, Distorts relationships between variables by “pulling” estimates of the correlation toward zero.

14.) In statistics, linear regression is a linear approach to modeling the relationship between a scalar response and one or more explanatory variables.
     The case of one explanatory variable is called simple linear regression. For more than one explanatory variable, the process is called multiple linear regression

15.) If we consider the branches of statistics, there are two branches in it. They are:
      
       # Descriptive Statistics :
       Descriptive statistics deals with the presentation and collection of data. This is usually the first part of a statistical analysis. It is usually not as simple
       as it sounds, and the statistician needs to be aware of designing experiments, choosing the right focus group and avoid biases that are so easy to creep into the experiment.
       Descriptive statistics forms a basis for analysis and discussion in such diverse fields as security trading, the social sciences, professional sports so on. 
       it is not used to draw conclusion about the population

       # Inferential Statistics :
       Inferential statistics, as the name suggests, involves drawing the right conclusions from the statistical analysis that has been performed using descriptive statistics. 
       In the end, it is the inferences that make studies important and this aspect is dealt with in inferential statistics.
       Most predictions of the future and generalizations about a population by studying a smaller sample come under the purview of inferential statistics. Most social sciences 
       experiments deal with studying a small sample population that helps determine how the population in general behaves. By designing the right experiment, the researcher is able
       to draw conclusions relevant to his study.
       Inferential statistics is used to estimate the parameters of the population.



